hey everybody so conservative media is
weird and for some reason I watch a lot
of it definitely too much of it and so I
thought it would be nice
during this gobble-gobble Thanksgiving
month of November to start a series of
four videos about conservatives and the
things they do and say and rather than
trying to offer some robust debunking
zuv these people or something like that
I'm just gonna tell you some loose
meandering stories about them stories
that I think are funny or moving or
thought-provoking important to me in
some way so I don't want to waste your
time with a lengthy introduction
explaining why I'm doing this or what
the point is let's get started and we'll
figure it out from there this one's a
real shorty too so I hope you enjoy that
so there's a youtube video i love called
ben shapiro trashes John Lennon's
Imagine John Lennon's Imagine is a
monstrosity it's a moral musical
monstrosity in every it it is the cave
troll of all that is good and holy and
before we really get into it I think
it's important to acknowledge how
strange it is that this video exists in
the first place that Ben Shapiro had ten
minutes worth of stuff to say about the
topic imagine is at least to some extent
a communist manifesto in a very generic
way it proposes that a godless stateless
moneyless world would be a good thing
and considering the fact that ben
shapiro is very much not a communist it
seems like his response to the song
could be as simple as you know that
ideology I spend my life disagreeing
with that since Lenin doesn't put any
real work into arguing the song's thesis
Shapiro doesn't need to provide some
lengthy response but for kind of obvious
reasons
that's not what happens here see Shapiro
isn't in the business of saying he
disagrees with something and quietly
moving on instead he is deeply invested
in the pageantry of online debate in
revealing that his opponents are not
just wrong but also wrongheaded idiotic
shameful his job is to win as much
is possible by saying as many things as
possible let me explain you something
okay if you're gonna pick a chance if
you're gonna pick a chant like shame who
me
if you're gonna take a chant like shame
watch Game of Thrones first the bad guys
shout shame and the result of this in
the case of Ben Shapiro versus John
Lennon is that Shapiro comes off looking
like an unbelievable buffoon like in the
first moments of imagine Lennon talks
about all the people in the world living
for today and that just sets Ben off
what he just said is the most immoral
thing you could possibly say hey imagine
all the people living for today that's
basically what we have okay imagine all
the people living for today means you
don't plan for the future it means you
don't care about your kids it means you
don't care what happens tomorrow it
means you don't care about anybody else
you just care about you okay this is the
most selfish morality possible if all
the people lived just for today they
would screw everything in sight and kill
all their enemies it's hard to come up
with something to say about this because
it's just so incredibly and
self-evidently ridiculous Lenin isn't
referring to today like these 24 hours
right the stanza is about imagining if
people didn't believe in an afterlife in
that case they wouldn't count on and
organize their lives around some
unprovable reward and would instead work
to make the world a better place right
now like today for instance or when
Lenin says imagine a world with nothing
to kill or die for Ben goes on this long
thing about how you know how about
people harming kids isn't that worth
killing or dying for there's nothing
worth killing or dying for really how
about like the torture of children is
that worth killing or dying for how
about the murder of a hundred million
people is that worth killing or dying
for turns out that in your happy Dappy
little land here where everybody is is
just wonderful and joyous this this
assumes a goodness of human nature that
just does not exist and again what
looking at the context of the song
something shapiro is
unwilling to do lenin isn't saying what
if nobody ever did anything wrong that
required intervention rather he's
talking about countries here the
imposition of nationalism and the
violence that it causes
[Music]
it's not just a bland statement about
how killing people is bad and what if we
didn't do it or at one point Lennon
talks about imagining if there were no
possessions and then Shapiro goes on
this rant about how the only thing
separating primitive society from the
innovations of history was the idea of
private property I have a good reason
why we shouldn't share the land it's
called several thousand years of no
human development and then Western
civilization that's why we should we
should not share the land private
property private property ownership the
idea of Labor the idea of owning what
you produce is one of the greatest goods
ever discovered in the history of
civilization we would all be one you
know hunter-gatherer nomads peoples with
no history and we'd all die at 30 if it
weren't for human civilization and
private property ownership and the
incentive that suggests that you own
what you produce and you know I don't
even want to do this anymore to say that
property rights the modern conception of
which came to us via Enlightenment
thinkers like John Locke is the sole
reason why human history happened that's
dumb
everybody who's taken sixth grade world
history with mrs. Savage knows that the
forerunner to civilization was primarily
agriculture agriculture which allowed
the end of nomadism and the beginning of
more stable organized city states with
large unified cultures agriculture which
meant people were able to spend less
time hunting and gathering and could
instead create and innovate with their
surplus resources agriculture which is
the reason why every single early
society sprouted along the floodplains
of rivers not just in the West that's
racist to say that they also came about
in Mesopotamia and Egypt and China and
the Americas in India and do you think
all the people in those sibs owned what
they produced no and certainly not in
any kind of formalized ethical framework
many of them lived in empires and
with leaders who often forcefully took
as much as they could I mean obviously
this is a reductive analysis I get that
but to think that the wheel of history
was turned only in the way
and only by the innovation of private
property is genuinely baffling and I'm
going to sue Ben Shapiro for saying it
but anyway while I do personally love
watching ben shapiro make an ass out of
himself showing that he literally can't
interact with an idea he disagrees with
without letting his brain explode that's
not really the reason I'm interested in
this video no the reason I love it the
reason I watch it sometimes when I'm in
a bad mood comes from one basic fact
that in his attempt to destroy imagine
tear it limb from limb leave us with the
impression that it has nothing
worthwhile to say ben shapiro
plays the song he platforms john lennon
now this is obviously a bit of a
digression but let's take a minute and
talk about imagine so i know it might
sound trite because the song is played
constantly but in my opinion imagine is
nothing less than a masterpiece one
that's a lot more complicated than it
might seem on first blush the first
thing we might notice about it is that
there aren't a lot of songs that do what
it does besides something like the
cha-cha slide which is obviously
completely different i can't name a
single piece of music that calls on the
audience to perform a set of specific
tasks over the course of its runtime
imagine no religion it asks you know
countries no possessions
what's more the active imagining is not
trivialized by the song it's not always
so simple sure it's not hard to imagine
there not being an afterlife imagine
season but when it comes to imagining
there being no possessions Lenin
expresses doubt a challenge imagine
I wonder if
in this way I think imagine says
something really poignant because at the
end of the day the song isn't asking us
to do very much at all is it Lenin isn't
asking us to buy something vote for
somebody something like that instead he
just wants us to come to one realization
that so much of the pain in our world is
caused by ideas that we came up with we
invented religion country's possessions
and whether or not you like those things
or think they're good for the world
it's uncontroversial to say that they
have left us with a lot of bad
working to get to an afterlife that
probably doesn't exist instead of
devoting our lives to the world around
us fighting each other because we
fundamentally think that the people in
our country are more deserving than the
people in their country allowing some
people to starve and live terrible lives
while others live in impossible
decadence but the upshot is these are
our ideas nobody else's and as such we
can change them do what we want with
them we can imagine something different
and for now within the context of the
song that's simple yet surprisingly
challenging action is enough and Shapero
plays that between making elitist
comments about who can and can't be good
at music okay none of them knew how to
read music call me an elitist for me to
call you a great musician you have to
know how to read music between implying
that John Lennon is burning in hell
imagine
there's a reading between saying his
nonsense points he plays the song and
the emotional effect of this choice is
startling at least to me I want to play
you my favorite part of the video now
it's kind of long but also too good to
describe on the anniversary of his death
we're gonna make fun of the worst song
ever written so here we go
[Applause]
[Music]
I hope so
imagine No
here we go Tommy in this giant house by
the way while standing in a giant dad's
house
[Music]
we need for greater cooler
never existed in ever will
imagine all
people
[Music]
if I were making a movie where Ben
Shapiro is the bad guy I couldn't do a
better job of it than this scene does
because everything about it tells us
that John Lennon is winning the comments
Ben Shapiro makes here are aggressively
vacant and unnecessary look at his big
house that's the problem he's not the
only one no need for greed or hunger
love love love love Lennon is played
loudly so loudly that at times Shapiro
is genuinely hard to make out the song
itself is at least to my ear just
beautiful to listen to and all this
comes together to produce the aesthetic
experience of John Lennon posthumously
owning Ben Shapiro not just rendering
him wrong but also irrelevant a nagging
impotent figure who will try but
ultimately fail to get what he wants you
know it's easy to doubt the actual
importance of the song imagine sure it
sounds nice but what does it really
accomplish to just think about the world
being different and if nothing else this
video comes in in a really elegant way
to tell us that John Lennon was right
after all
if the simple act of imagining is enough
to send this weirdo Ben Shapiro into an
intellectual tailspin if it causes him
to whine about how it's the worst thing
ever made if it's so obviously threatens
him makes him sweat then it must be
kinda meaningful so that's the end of
the video and now it's time for my
patreon question and stuff but first
over from our sponsors
skill share skill share is an online
learning community with thousands of
classes in design business and even more
than that design is a surprisingly big
part of my job I have to make thumbnails
all the time and so it was pretty great
to take this graphic design fundamentals
course the two ladies who taught it
seemed really interesting and cool and
they actually taught me a lot but I'm
just one
signing up on Skillshare premium it
gives you access to every class do you
want to learn about how to be productive
so what are you waiting for
Skillshare is giving a two month free
trial to people who click the link in my
description box and after that it's only
like ten dollars a month so with all
that thanks for watching everybody
I really hope you like this one because
there's gonna be three more in the
series and they're only gonna get
weirder I think anyway if you did like
it like comment subscribe and give you
money on patreon if you want to leftist
tech support asks with Thanksgiving
around the corner what's your favorite
Thanksgiving dish and I do think this is
uncontroversial the answer is stuffing
and Brussels sprouts it's a tie between
those two things both delicious but I'm
honestly a big fan of Thanksgiving food
in general I feel like Turkey gets a
short shrift people treated unfairly uh
God mashed potatoes are good okay bye